Import the required libraries.

import pandas as pd
The dataset is available on the IBM Cloud at the below url.

dataset_url = "https://cf-courses-data.s3.us.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/IBM-DA0321EN-SkillsNetwork/LargeData/m1_survey_data.csv"
Load the data available at dataset_url into a dataframe.

_csv(dataset_url)
df=pd.read_csv(dataset_url)
Explore the data set
It is a good idea to print the top 5 rows of the dataset to get a feel of how the dataset will look.

Display the top 5 rows and columns from your dataset.

df.head()
df.head()
Respondent	MainBranch	Hobbyist	OpenSourcer	OpenSource	Employment	Country	Student	EdLevel	UndergradMajor	...	WelcomeChange	SONewContent	Age	Gender	Trans	Sexuality	Ethnicity	Dependents	SurveyLength	SurveyEase
0	4	I am a developer by profession	No	Never	The quality of OSS and closed source software ...	Employed full-time	United States	No	Bachelor’s degree (BA, BS, B.Eng., etc.)	Computer science, computer engineering, or sof...	...	Just as welcome now as I felt last year	Tech articles written by other developers;Indu...	22.0	Man	No	Straight / Heterosexual	White or of European descent	No	Appropriate in length	Easy
1	9	I am a developer by profession	Yes	Once a month or more often	The quality of OSS and closed source software ...	Employed full-time	New Zealand	No	Some college/university study without earning ...	Computer science, computer engineering, or sof...	...	Just as welcome now as I felt last year	NaN	23.0	Man	No	Bisexual	White or of European descent	No	Appropriate in length	Neither easy nor difficult
2	13	I am a developer by profession	Yes	Less than once a month but more than once per ...	OSS is, on average, of HIGHER quality than pro...	Employed full-time	United States	No	Master’s degree (MA, MS, M.Eng., MBA, etc.)	Computer science, computer engineering, or sof...	...	Somewhat more welcome now than last year	Tech articles written by other developers;Cour...	28.0	Man	No	Straight / Heterosexual	White or of European descent	Yes	Appropriate in length	Easy
3	16	I am a developer by profession	Yes	Never	The quality of OSS and closed source software ...	Employed full-time	United Kingdom	No	Master’s degree (MA, MS, M.Eng., MBA, etc.)	NaN	...	Just as welcome now as I felt last year	Tech articles written by other developers;Indu...	26.0	Man	No	Straight / Heterosexual	White or of European descent	No	Appropriate in length	Neither easy nor difficult
4	17	I am a developer by profession	Yes	Less than once a month but more than once per ...	The quality of OSS and closed source software ...	Employed full-time	Australia	No	Bachelor’s degree (BA, BS, B.Eng., etc.)	Computer science, computer engineering, or sof...	...	Just as welcome now as I felt last year	Tech articles written by other developers;Indu...	29.0	Man	No	Straight / Heterosexual	Hispanic or Latino/Latina;Multiracial	No	Appropriate in length	Easy
5 rows × 85 columns

Find out the number of rows and columns
Start by exploring the numbers of rows and columns of data in the dataset.

Print the number of rows in the dataset.

print(len(df))
print(len(df))
11552
Print the number of columns in the dataset.

print(len(df.columns))
print(len(df.columns))
85
Identify the data types of each column
Explore the dataset and identify the data types of each column.

Print the datatype of all columns.

df.dtypes
df.dtypes
Respondent       int64
MainBranch      object
Hobbyist        object
OpenSourcer     object
OpenSource      object
                 ...  
Sexuality       object
Ethnicity       object
Dependents      object
SurveyLength    object
SurveyEase      object
Length: 85, dtype: object
Print the mean age of the survey participants.

df['Age'].mean()
30.77239449133718
The dataset is the result of a world wide survey. Print how many unique countries are there in the Country column.

,n)
n=len(pd.unique(df['Country']))
print("Number of Unique Countries:",n)
Number of Unique Countries: 135
Authors
Ramesh Sannareddy

Other Contributors
Rav Ahuja

Change Log
Date (YYYY-MM-DD)	Version	Changed By	Change Description
2020-10-17	0.1	Ramesh Sannareddy	Created initial version of the lab
Copyright © 2020 IBM Corporation. This notebook and its source code are released under the terms of the MIT License.


